Fri Sep  7 20:24:02 2018

In stellar age vs a/Rstar (or period) space, the absence of short period
planets in the CKS sample is notcieable.

In stellar metallicity vs a/Rstar space, the absence is blatant. It's almost a
step function after [Fe/H]<-0.2.

In stellar age vs a/Rstar, if you squint at it, it actually looks like the
paucity extends further down -- like to ~4Gyr, with an "envelope". But this
could be seeing patterns in noise. Or _wanting_ to see patterns thru noise.

Regardless, the lack of old, short period planets could very well be a
metallicity effect. Or it could be an age effect. The two are degenerate.

If it were age...

  Could it be tides? What Qstar would be required? (Probably very low! Because of
      the small M_pl.)

      * Can you do an OOM calculation to show what Qstar would be needed?
      (AKA, just calculate the tidal inspiral timescale in equilibrium tide
      theory from OOM considerations. The 1/e folding time of a/adot).

  Could it be secular chaos? In this case, you would need a reasonable fraction
  of the inner planets to be kicked out after ~10 Gyr of evolution, in a
  "typical system" (e.g., 3 planets within 400 days, per Zhu+ 2018).

If it were metallicity...
  Could it be related to *formation requirements*? Like: you need a certain
  amount of metals in your disk to enable grain sticking and growth. Below a
  certain point, at least close in,

  Why the period dependence? Maybe you need giant planets to move planets below
  a/Rstar~=10? You can form small planets no matter what, but giant planets
  have the metallicity dependence?


----------
FROM PETIGURA+ 2018:

On what you expect the radial disk surface density to look like in the Chiang &
Laughlin 2013, or the Lee & Chiang 2017 models:

The inner disk is truncated by B fields from the star.

"""
In the Lee & Chiang (2017) model, hot super- Earth/sub-Neptune occurrence rates
are set by stellar rotation on the pre-main-sequence. It is not clear if
stellar metallicity is correlated with pre-main-sequence rotation rates, and
Lee & Chiang (2017) did not predict a metallicity dependence for hot
super-Earths/sub- Neptunes.
"""

"""
High eccentricity migration may explain the hot super-Earth/sub-Neptune period
and metallicity distributions.  Some of the hot super-Earths/sub-Neptunes may
be the result of scattering events between multiple planets. Such encounters
preserve the total orbital energy of both planets, but the semi-major axes of
both planets may be significantly altered. Dawson & Murray- Clay (2013)
proposed a similar mechanism to explain the fact that high eccentricity giant
planets with a = 0.1– 1.0 AU, almost exclusively orbit stars with super-solar
metallicities.

A formation pathway involving scattering may help to explain the existence of
hot sub-Neptunes, which are at risk of photo-evaporative stripping (see Section
7.2.1).  Scattering events may occur late enough such that a sub-Neptune is not
subjected to the majority its star’s XUV output (t & 100 Myr).
"""

"""
Additional clues to the formation of hot super- Earths/sub-Neptunes may lie in
their orbital eccentrici ties and degree of alignment with stellar spin axes
(obliquities).  If planets initially form in the plane of their disks, but are
then scattered by other planets, we predict relic eccentricities and
obliquities. If these planets form in relative isolation, and are simply a
product of the local disk density profile, their eccentricities and obliquities
should be low.
"""

(Well wait though. We know P<10 day planets in multis tend to have large P2/P1.
Doesn't this support planet scattering [high-e] more than in-situ?
Isn't the entire point of in situ that you can't form them at a/Rstar <~ 10?)


